You need to vision cast. [music] You
need to sell to a gap. Don't sell to a
problem. When you're selling to a
leader, you need to be selling an
opportunity. The market doesn't want to
be sold to. They want to buy.
>> Most founders would rather get 10 10k
deals than lose nine and get one 100k
deal.
>> In the very early days, people will
discount till the cows come home because
they think that's the way to get a deal
done. The best clients are not going to
do [music] that to you. If they're
sitting there nickel and dimeming you,
they're not fully bought in on what
you're selling them.
>> It might be giving you a false sense of
success and product market fit.
>> As soon as you become a comparison as
soon as you become one of three that
they're testing [music] out, you've
already sort of lost. It's all about
differentiation. Here's what you will be
able to do tomorrow because of how we're
going to serve you today.
>> Something else that you talk about is
that enterprise sales is very creative.
>> It's more of an art. It's all about deal
crafting. It is a relationship you're
building with someone. if they know they
can call on you. People will turn over
rocks for you. I have a client at a
Fortune 10 company where I was like,
"It's so important we get the deal done
this year. Is that possible?" And she's
like, "It's a tall order, but like if
it's going to help you, let's do it."
These are how enterprise deals gets
done. It's relationships.
>> What's kind of like the state-of-the-art
on go to market outbound tooling?
>> I don't use a tool. The thing about AI
tools is they're all pulling from the
same databases. I want to email someone
not in the database that's [music]
getting hit by a million folks. I want
to take a back door in, not the front
door where everyone else is
trick-or-treating.
Today, my guest is Jen Ael, co-founder
of Jellyfish, where she and her team
help earlystage founders learn how to
sell and now GMF enterprise at state
affairs. If you want to become better at
selling your product, this episode is
going to blow your mind and make you so
much better in every way. This is the
second time Jen's been on the podcast.
Our first conversation was focused
around getting from zero to 1 million
ARR, essentially founderled sales. This
conversation is part two, going from
around 1 million in AR, to around 10
million. This is the most tactical and
in the weeds discussion you will find
anywhere for free on how to actually
become more effective [music] at selling
to enterprises. I'm so excited for you
to listen to this conversation. If you
enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get 17 incredible products for free for
an entire year, including Devon,
Lovable, Replate, Bolt, Nadon, Linear,
Superhum, Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma,
Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic
Patterns, Raycast, Chappd, and Mobin.
Head on over to Lenny's newsletter.com
and click product pass. With that, I
bring you Gen Able after a short word
from our sponsors. Here's a puzzle for
you. What do OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity,
Verscell, Platt, and hundreds of other
winning companies have in common? The
answer is they're all powered by today's
sponsor, WorkOS. If you're building
software for enterprises, you've
probably felt the pain of integrating
single signon, skim, arbback, audit
logs, and other features required by big
customers. Work OS turns those deal
blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern
developer platform built specifically
for B2B SAS. Whether you're a seedstage
startup trying to land your first
enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. Workos allows you to build like
the best with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
This episode is brought to you by
Lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history, I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality, and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
Jen, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast, Lenny. It's
starting to feel familiar and I like it.
[laughter]
>> I should have said welcome back to the
podcast. So, I actually shared on
Twitter that you're coming back and I
had so many people ask so many
questions. Clearly, there is a lot of
confusion and a lot of need for uh
learning how to get better at the stuff
we're going to talk about sales,
enterprise sales. to frame the
discussion. The our first chat which
we're going to point people to if they
want to start there we focused on
founder sales which is essentially the
beginning phases of a startup kind of
going from zero to about 100 million AR.
This discussion is on the next phase
which is going from about a million AR
to about 10 million AR in enterprise
sales not like PLG or anything like
that.
>> Y
>> you have a bunch of really strong and
counterintuitive opinions and piece of
advice on how to be successful at this.
So, I'm just gonna go through a bunch of
these things. We'll see where it goes.
Before I get into the first one, is
there anything broadly I don't know, is
there anything broadly you want to
share? Anything you want to say before
we dive in?
>> No, let's dive right in.
>> Okay. Okay. So, the first thing that I
haven't heard anyone talk about before
is this uh point that you often make
that the mid-market does not exist.
People often hear about enterprise
companies. There's obviously SMBs and
startups. There's also people just like,
"Oh, I'm going to go after the
mid-market somewhere between." You don't
think that's real? talk about your
experience there. What you what people
should know.
>> It's fascinating because you ask if you
ask someone to describe the mid-market
actually if you ask someone to describe
the enterprise every single person has a
different answer, right? It's either
based off of revenue, it's either based
off of market cap, it's based off of
employee size. And I think a lot of
people can get lost because selling to a
100 person organization is a radically
different game than selling to a
thousand person organization
and there's no there's no like hybrid
approach. So the best way to think about
it is you have small business which is
typically can be really powered by
marketing and then you have enterprise
which is typically going to be salesled.
If you bucket them into these two very
specific silos,
it makes it much much easier to
understand what game you're playing.
Now, when we talk about mid-market, I
usually will say, "Are we talking about
the upper end of small business or are
we talking about the lower end of
enterprise?" And most people are usually
saying the lower end of enterprise. And
I say, "Great. Know you're playing the
enterprise game. Know the type of people
you need to hire. know the type of ACV
they need because it makes it a lot
easier than trying to have this middle
ground that catches everything that
doesn't distinctly define SMB and
enterprise. So I say the mid-market
doesn't exist because what is a
mid-market hire? It's either low it's
either low-end enterprise or upper end
SMB. And if you bleed those two games,
you're going to lose. They're so
distinctly different. So that's kind of
my theory on it. you have this chart
that you shared with me that will link
people to where you kind of show the
number of companies within each of these
segments and there's basically nobody in
this kind of middle segment. Talk about
that a bit.
>> That's right. And just like the power
laws, I mean, if you look at the Fortune
um and the and then the kind of the
lower-end enterprise from there, the the
G like it trails off so fast like power
laws totally exist in these like large
corporations. And I I I and we can't be
treating everyone the same.
>> This begs the question, where do you uh
suggest companies start? There's
obviously startups classically are just
like innovators, move fast, can make
quick decisions. Enterprises have all
the money. Uh usually the advice I hear
is just don't go after the fancy
companies to start because they take a
long time. They're you don't want to
screw it up. What's your advice on where
to start for most companies?
>> The exact opposite.
Early adopters are those logos
because they have to continue to stay at
the number one spot. So they'll take
they'll take tons of you know uh swings
to continue to stay in the number
staying in the number one spot is the
hardest part, right? So those number one
logos are like if you can give me just a
slight bit of alpha, just a tiny bit
that's where I get that's where I get
promoted. That's why I get the pat on
the back because we are the world's
leader in our industry and we cannot be
disrupted there. So there's this running
joke where uh not a running joke,
there's this running statement where a
lot of VCs will say don't go after tier
one logos, go learn down market or go
learn from like logos that don't
necessarily carry a lot of weight. The
ones that carry all the weight are the
ones that are willing to take a shot and
want to help, right? because um they
also want to be a part of they also want
to be able to dictate the roadmap. Now,
it's the founders's job to decide what
what can be done and what shouldn't be
done, but their voice takes you a
$100,000 deal into a million dollar deal
in a very short period of time.
>> It will literally guide you there. So,
when someone says, "Hey, go after
startups that just short sales cycle."
Yeah, there like that that makes sense.
I totally get that. It's a very it's
very easy to decide define the decision
maker. It's very easy. You don't you
have to go through procurement. But in
the age of AI where it's all about
sucking the oxygen out of the room and
winning the deal and getting your foot
in the door as quickly as humanly
possible before someone else tries to
take that, you want to get to the
enterprise as fast as humanly possible.
>> Just so folks understand what we're
talking about here. Uh when you say tier
one, what's a good way to think about
what tier one looks like? one is like
your Walmart, your McDonald's, your
Nvidia, your Tesla, your Exxon Mobile,
your um United Healthcare, the logos
that like are the leader in their space
and um you know their job is to stay in
the number one spot.
>> Wow. So your advice is because this is
very counterintuitive. This is exactly
what you're here not to do. your advice
is go after like the chevrons and the
mobiles and the Walmarts as a startup co
>> because if you can get them
that's all the proof you need.
>> How do you approach finding someone?
Let's just get tactical there. Just like
say you're going after Walmart. I know
this is like not like a five second
answer but just how would someone
approach finding someone at Walmart to
sell to?
>> First of all, make sure the founder's
involved, right? They love everyone
loves talking to a founder. So like
don't and there's we'll start with let's
get the founder involved as fast as
humanly possible. The second is you need
to vision cast. You need to sell to a
gap. Don't sell to a problem. There's a
very big difference between problem
selling and gapelling. Problem selling
is highly specific, more technical than
not. And it's the it's the way that
every salesperson is going to go about
it. Find the problem and anchor to it.
When you're selling to a leader, you
need to be vision casting and you need
to be selling an opportunity, right?
Which is they are here. Here's where we
can take you. You know that that image
where it's like Mario or Mario, Mario,
Mario, and then there's like the
mushroom and then there's like Mario on
blast and everyone's like don't sell the
mushroom, sell Mario on Blast. Well,
that's exactly what it's saying. It's
it's about selling the opportunity.
That's what gets the tier one logos
excited and that is the best thing for a
founder to sell. Selling the vision
versus the problem and also it's it's
what gets them to want to take a swing.
Who wants to take a swing because you
can do some small problem? They're not
going to go to bat for that.
>> What's an example of a vision cast in a
company you've worked with? Just to make
this real, like what does it look like
when you've done a great job? We have an
ability to deliver alpha meaning we have
information, we have data, we have um a
way of working that no one else can do
or is going to unlock a new way of
thinking for you or an ability to
deliver to a customer or an ability to
solve a problem. Right now this is you
have an ability to access this level of
information. I have an opportunity
through our resources or through this ex
like gated data we have access to to get
you much further upstream so that you
can get information faster sooner. It's
kind of like the high frequency trading
that 1 second that one second. It's they
didn't do much. They you know they
didn't sell oh we we're doing fiber
cable connect connectivity we're giving
you one second of alpha before everyone
else. It's it's more of like that
ability and that's not problem selling
that's opportunity selling. I like this
phrasing of just giving them alpha.
That's such a simple way to imagine what
this should feel like. We'll link to
that image you're talking about with the
Mario and
>> you know that you know that image.
>> Yeah. And it the person that made that
image originally was Kathy Sierra if you
remember her. Do you remember? So
there's this person Kathy Sierra. She's
from back in the day. This was a big uh
I don't know lesson she taught is you
want to not sell your people on like a
feature or product. You want to sell
them on uh them becoming a superhero.
>> Yeah, that's right. they are now a
superhero because of the thing you've
built for them. And so, so the vision
here is here's how you become a
superhero. Here's how this alpha will
help you become more successful.
>> And that's why founders are so good at
selling because they they're they
naturally go to vision selling and
vision casting versus a typical trained
salesperson is find the problem. Um, uh,
you know, ask these questions and it
just kills the vibe. It just feels like
you're talking to a salesperson, right?
It's like, what's your script? And it's
like that's not vision selling, that's
like playbook selling. And that and in
the age of AI where it's all a lot of it
is about alpha. It's about speed. It's
about getting access to information.
It's about training data. Like and look
at the look at how the market's reacting
to it, right? It's all it's all
opportunity and it's all um yeah, it's
all about the alpha.
>> So just to make this more concrete for
people, say I'm like saleserson at
cursor.
What would be an example of vision
casting? Like the obvious idea there is
your team will be more productive.
You'll get more dynamo faster than
everybody else. Is that a big enough
vision to cast?
>> I think it may be more of like you'll be
able to actually hire the 10x engineers
that you don't necessarily have access
to because they want to be able to use
this type of tool.
It's about getting letting them get
better, letting them get differentiated
talent,
right? Or that's probably more of what I
would anchor to of like this is the the
10x engineers use cursor. You don't do
you want access to 10x engineers?
>> Like they won't even join your company
if you're not using cursor.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Like think about there's so
many so many people are so specific
about what they're able to espec I think
especially technical folks like I'm not
a technical person but I would imagine
that they're not going to go to you know
they don't like to go to these
corporations because they're forced to
use some like incumbent incumbent tools.
>> Going back to the going after these
larger companies I asked your uh
colleague Justin what he what he sees
you do that most impacts the success
that teams have with their sales
process. And there's a bunch I'm going
to touch on, but one is uh most founders
are insecure about asking for large ACVs
for charging or they the way he put it
is most founders would rather get 10 10k
deals than lose nine and get one 100k
deal. Talk about your advice there and
what you see.
>> There are in the very early days
people will discount till the cows come
home because they think that's the way
to get a deal done, right? the best the
best clients are not going to do that to
you because they they like that's like a
qualification criteria, right? Which is
like if they're sitting there nickel and
dimeming you being like, "No, I don't I
don't I don't believe it's worth this. I
don't believe it's worth that." They're
not fully bought in on what you're
selling them. So when when when
I say I'd rather get $100,000 deal than
10 $10,000 deals, I'd rather have one
rockstar client that's going to help me
figure out the next stage of where this
is going than 10 or maybe five that are
a good fit, five that are not, and I
still have to serve those five that are
not a good fit. And that's going to
distract me.
So, this is why I love enterprise sales
is
they're not going to do the hard work of
bringing you in if it's not critical or
if it's not. When I say critical, it's
it's not going to it's going to impact
them in a way that they're going to make
it successful. That's what I love about
enterprise sales. they have the
resources to ensure that it gets
implemented cuz most of in today's day
and age if people are not using the tool
you just get rid of the tool right so
they're going to want to make sure
whatever they bring in what they go to
bat for remember they get they go to bat
once every two years maybe once every
three years you've got to make it feel
incredible you've got to make it feel
like they're going to be a superhero
going back to it otherwise what's the
point because the way enterprises are
structured is it is it is designed today
to make it hard to buy because they want
to make sure whatever you're bringing in
you really really want it gets rid of
the mediocre you know I think this would
be good and it gets to this is going to
change the way we work it's going to
it's going to impact our ability to
capture some form of alpha however you
want to define that for them and it's
sticky because of that.
>> So your advice here broadly is don't pay
attention to the smaller 10kish kind of
opportunities for for a bunch of
reasons. One is it may be giving you a
false sense of success and product
market fit. Uh two, those companies are
maybe not as innovative and won't lead
you in the right direction. Three is are
probably discounts just like your
product and your pricing is just gets
thrown off.
>> Yeah. And also like you don't really get
taken seriously for 10k.
you get way more taken seriously for
100k cases. It's much harder to get 100k
deal done and like an executive used
needs to be involved. I'd much rather
have an executive sign off on something
and spend two more months getting the
deal done because you know that they are
bought in. you know, you can now ensure
what kind of value do they want to
unlock and maybe you have an opportunity
to turn them into a user, which to me in
today's day and age with our generation
being the ones that are now the
executives at these corporations, this
is native to them.
>> Who is this true for? Is this is the
advice here? Basically, if you're trying
to build a successful B2B company, uh,
everybody should be aiming towards these
100k sort of deals. Is there a world
where you can be successful with 10Ks
for a long time?
>> If you have a super high win rate in a
massive market, because all you have to
do is reverse engineer the math. If you
need a if you need to generate $100
million in revenue, how many 10k deals
do you need? And the expansion on a 10K
deal is in parallel to that, right? What
can you go 10 to 15 if you're that's a
50% growth,
right? much easier to go to 100K to 500K
because they want more bodies or they
want more value out of you. For an
enterprise, they'd love to get more out
of an existing customer. You're already
trusted. So, it's also about, you know,
the type of company you are. If you're
venturebacked, you can't be selling
$10,000 deals to the enterprise. You'll
get killed or or you've already lost the
game because you're playing a small
business game in in the wrong sector.
Have you seen startups you've worked
with succeed in that 10k 20k bucket or
is it really really rare
>> if they're going after the enterprise?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. If it's the first three months and
then after three three months it turns
into a 50k and then 100k and it ramps up
quickly. Sure, that makes sense because
you got your foot in the door and it and
you can expand it exponentially um in a
healthy manner. I think that that's
fine. $10,000 a year then going to 12
then going to 15. The math will break.
>> This is great. I feel like most founders
listening to this are like, "No, no,
we're kind of in that exception. We'll
be all right. 10K, we'll do 20K." That's
crazy to consider 100K.
>> Yeah. That the math will break. And also
the a really good salesperson, your
commission on a 10K deal,
you're not going to get a great
salesperson. They're going to want to do
they're going to want to be anchored to
like, "How can I sell a $250,000 deal?
How can I sell a half a million dollar
deal?" That's the type of person you
want. And this is like a big part of
this is this is a good lens to force you
to build the product that you can sell
for 100K, 500K.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And again, this is
about playing that enterprise game. If
you're trying to sell a if you know
you're a small business, if you're if
you're in the small business place and
an enterprise company comes to you and
is like, I like this, ensure that you
structure it for an enterprise, don't
play the small business game with an
enterprise company.
>> Talk more about that. What does that
mean? Let's say you're PLG and an enter
big company like Walmart comes to you
and is like, "Hey, can we get access for
three of our users and they're like,
"This is so exciting." Well, and then
they sell them the small business
pricing for three users to Walmart.
Very, very hard now to go from those
three users that you just priced them at
a small business as in a small business
way turn that into 100K because now it's
documented what they're actually paying
for this. So, you're stuck. you've kind
of like anchored yourself to this price.
Not to mention like what's the how are
you going to unlock the executive highle
value so that you can get that so you
can get someone you can get that senior
executive to buy in and stamp this as
well. Otherwise, it's just going to be
throwing it on the credit card. But like
again, you've just ruined your
enterprise game because you're anchoring
to a small business price. So, this is
why like when you bleed these two games,
it's very, very, very dangerous because
these are really smart companies.
They're going to say, "Well, wait a
second. I just paid $9,000 last year and
now you want to charge me $90,000. Well,
what's the step change in value? What's
the difference? What's the 10x value I'm
now getting?" That's super hard to
prove.
>> So, the tip here is uh your initial
price will really screw you if you get
it wrong. And so obviously we're not
going to give people the answer on their
pricing strategy fully, but just is the
advice just charge more or like what
would you recommend?
>> It is enterprise companies are very used
to a land when I say like the first
initial contract to somewhere between
75K and 150K
very used to that in fact that's
probably where you want to start because
you also want to understand where can
you grow from this. Start contained.
Don't say 150k and sell the farm. Say
it's 150k. Here's who's gets access.
Here's the value we're going to deliver.
And um here's where we're going over
time. You also want them to know here's
what here's how what we plan to do
roughly in year two, year three. I know
it's hard to look that far out, but like
plant the seed with them in terms of
where this is going. If you come in at
$10,000,
it's so even if they want to bring you
in and want to spend 100K from with you,
they have to be able to defend that. And
now they see a $10,000. It's just it can
get really messy, especially because a
lot of them are using AI now to
understand like contracts. So, they're
going to quickly say, "Oh, wait. You
spent $1,000 with Lenny and now Lenny's
asking you for 100K. Great. Just just
help me understand why or defend it." I
could totally see Chbtt being like this
is interesting. Used to be 1K and now
it's 100K. What might be going on here?
>> Totally. But people don't realize, you
know, how d how
>> again
know the game you're playing and don't
be sloppy about it.
>> So your advice here is really
interesting. It's uh there's the land
expand. expand is uh very important, but
the landing may screw your expanding
because it sets the wrong reference
point.
>> Thousand percent. That's exactly right.
You said it better than I did.
>> And so you may see like Matt like in
theory if you land a 10K go to 100K
that's like an amazing NR. Everyone's
going to be really impressed.
>> But you're saying people won't won't buy
into that. It's going to feel absurd and
wrong and
>> unless it's defendable. All it needs to
be is defendable. But who can really
defend? That's very hard to defend a 10x
10x jump. They're gonna want to see 15x
value.
>> Let's talk about design partners.
>> Oh yeah,
>> this is something most founders try to
do. They find a few folks to work with
to help them build the thing. What's
your advice on when to start finding
design partners, how to find design
partners, what a good relationship looks
like.
>> Design partners are incredible. They are
the hardest logos to upsell, meaning go
from design partner to full rollout
customer. So, like don't expect these
people to be your million-dollar
pipeline. Expect these people to be the
guide to help you understand
um maybe design partners could be, you
know, a technology company in the in the
Fortune 1000. So, that they're used to
experimenting, they're used to
technology, they're used to they were
once a startup, so they get it. Those
make really good design partners. Most
of the design partners that I've closed
are usually
like technology based, right? They they
get it. Um, and they also are excited
about, you know, advancing the org and
also giving the team an ability to have
that startup feel. So, like, you know,
if you're a large massive corporation
like uh Stripe, right? Stripe doesn't
get that startup vibe as much, like that
50 person startup vibe, but like this
can be a gift to give them that lens and
give them that voice and give them that
like excitement um that they, you know,
don't get as a larger company. But
they're those are great types of logos
to be, you know, early design partners
because one, they want to make sure
they're on that they continue to stay on
the that cutting edge, but two is
they are um
to try and build something without that
guidance is really really really hard
because they're not using it. So you
need that that you need that user
feedback
and you also need to tie that to the
executive value, right? So, it's it's
actually a lot. It's very hard to do,
but if you can come out of it and upsell
a design partner to a full rollout
customer, such huge
such a huge win for the market, for you,
for your team, and also for your
investors, because it's the hardest
customer to actually truly convert.
They've been it when it was messy. They
got a really they usually got a low
price point. But if you again frame it,
say, "Listen, I would love for you to be
design partner. I want a little skin in
the game to get you to pon it. Here's
where we want to go and you'll get a
you'll get a discount because you you
were in it in the beginning, but I'm
setting the framing. Here's where we
want to go with pricing. Here's where we
are today. You'll always have 30%
concession in perpetuity because you
were there with us on day one." So
again, it's not about, you know, asking
for $10,000 and then not expecting that
design partner to upsell and keep it
flat because there's no growth there.
It's a flat, you know, it's about
getting that early design partner, set
the framing, own the framing, and let
them know where you're going. Again,
$100,000 to these large logos. If they
want it, it's very easy for them to get
it in. there's this this really
interesting underlying piece of advice
of finding a company that pulls you in
the direction that leads to success. A
company that's kind of a visionary. Uh
like there's ob there's like the obvious
companies that everyone's always trying
to get these days. Open AAI and
Anthropic and Stripe I think is one. And
uh any advice for just like picking the
right early what are signs that this is
a company that will point you in the
right direction? I think they have to be
part of a logo that is deemed, you know,
um,
startup friendly, right? Or or, you
know, in that world. And then I think
it's the person, right? Like, is this
person excited to give feedback? Does
this person buy in to where we're going?
Do they see this world differently with
like us? Do they buy are they in lock
step with the founder vision? Are they
excited to to use a tool that's janky?
because it is janky in the beginning,
but they know they know that where this
can go can be incredible.
So, it's I think it's really about the
person and making sure that they're
aligned for what they're getting into.
And I think a lot of people
I think a lot of sales people oversell
it. I think that's a common thing that
happens, right? And that leads to churn.
That leads to frustration. That leads to
sometimes just cancelling the contract.
They oversell the initial kind of design
partners.
>> They overell everything. Yeah. Design
partner even full rollout. And it's so
so important to tell them here's where
we are today. Here's what we cannot do,
which is just as important. It builds
trust. Here's what we will allow you to
do in the next 6 months. Do you want to
be on this journey with us? And it's
really ugly right now. Right? Barely
anything exists, but like we would love
your voice to be a part of it. One of
the biggest fears I think founders have
is having a company pull basically build
just for their use case and then it ends
up not being used by a lot of people and
so like how far do you go f fixing their
specific problems? Any advice on just
how far to go with one company?
>> That is the founders's job. The
founders's job is to have a clear vision
and do not let anything delineate from
that. It's important to take feedback in
terms of what is the market's reality.
But like it is the founder and this is
why being a founder is so hard. It is
the founders's job to interpret that
because a lot of feedback you get is
this is the old way. This is they're
responding this way because it's the old
way of working.
They want you to build this because it's
the old that's how they're traditionally
expecting to do that. It is not here's
where we're going. This is why we're not
doing that. I hear you, but here's why
we're not going to do that. because this
is we're going to completely change the
way you do this. That is the founders's
job. And I think you know I we did a
bunch of design partnerships
uh you know late last year and
there was a lot of feedback given a lot
of feedback given but the founder had
such clarity with where he wanted to go
that he was like 80% noise 20% had I not
asked this question like I wouldn't have
gotten that gold in terms of where they
are today and like it's that 8020 rule
where 80% of what they're going to tell
you is probably going to be not related
to where you want to go or based off of
the old way, but that 20% of like, oh, I
did not think about it that way. That
drives everything.
>> Have you seen a design partner pull a
company in the wrong direction, just
kind of screw their their path? Have you
seen that or is that is that pretty
rare?
>> No, I think that that I don't think it's
that rare. Um, because we hear people
complain about it all the time, but I
think it's more of an excuse. Coming
back to this question of going after the
enterprise versus SMBs and again uh
early advice you gave is uh there's no
don't go in between either pick uh SMB
small company which uh I know you said
there's million way to to kind of
differentiate what this means but uh
what I guess I I think of employee
numbers like you know like under some
number over a thousand is maybe
enterprise is that like a a good way to
think about just like
>> yeah I mean it depends are you selling
per seats or are you selling um you know
based off usage or are you selling off
of like I think it also depends on the
pricing model a little bit.
>> I I look at headcount too because it's
just like it's just such an easy way to
think about it because you can also
gauge usage off that and a bunch of
other things. Um but sometimes like the
small companies like I think we're going
to see a lot more like
a lot more larger companies become
smaller because of AI. not like
significantly smaller but but also like
high margins allow them to experiment
more too.
>> That's such an interesting point you're
making there that like the the way we
designate enterprise versus SMB like may
shift because number of employees may go
down with AI.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Um so interesting. So going so where I
was going to go with this question is
when people are deciding I'm going to go
enterprise versus I'm going to sell to
startups like YC companies are the the
typical example they sell to their own
YC batches. any just broad advice of
picking. Okay, you go, we go enterprise
versus no, let's actually go startup.
>> I think it's about and I read this
somewhere and I I wholeheartedly agree
with it because I've seen it live. I
think it's about like what game does the
founder best understand. Are they like
an incredible marketer and have some
like competitive edge for how they can
like win a massive audience? I would say
go SMB and marketing le or are they a
bit more um you know really understand
how large corporations work and really
excited to deliver on $100,000 plus type
of opportunities or the value that they
are building for is way more relatable
to an enterprise versus a small
business.
>> That is really interesting. I've never
heard of it described that way. I think
about linear which started very startupy
and my take is they did that because
changing the way you work is really hard
and their bet was like let's start with
companies and grow with them and over
time that becomes the default. Any
reaction to that?
>> I think that it it sounds like that
that's a great way to work because
that's a technical tool, right? So that
you need to have the right you also need
to have the right infrastructure to
sell, right? Like I think Slack I mean
look Slack and Microsoft Teams are still
battling it out at the enterprise. I
think it's also like how you plug in and
how you integrate and do they even have
the right systems to support you. Um the
thing with open AI and and is like they
didn't have to connect to anything.
>> Uh say more about that.
>> So like the the value people were people
were bringing their own use cases to it,
right? Right. And they don't it's not
like they they in well they can ingest
and they've built that. That's a brand
new thing. And they started
they started I think I I this is someone
told me this so this is this could be
hearsay but I believe that they had they
were already speaking to CTOs even well
before they released to help them
explain where this is all going and get
their buy in. And it's and it's much
easier to get into the enterprise when
you're like we won't even touch your
data. Won't even touch your just
drop like use it to solve problems
and then and then we can build trust and
then start to integrate and and connect
the and connect the pipes. But like part
of the challenges with selling in the
enterprise you're like all right well
let's connect all your consumer data and
like in the whoa that's extremely risky.
So you have to start small and low risk
which is like hey here's what is the
subset of um consumers that turned let's
figure out how we could have made them
happier whatever it be so that data is
lower risk. Um so again it's also
understanding your market and
understanding you know what their
ability to experiment is.
>> It's interesting this distinction
between open AI right now and anthropic.
I don't know if you've been seeing kind
of their their growth. Feels like OpenAI
is very consumer first and Anthropic is
more and more winning on on B2B. I saw
this chart recently where they're like
overtaking OpenAI now on on B2B. Uh I
don't know any reaction there of just
like these two different approaches.
>> I don't because most enterprises I'm
talking to mention Gemini.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Yeah. Or uh or Microsoft Copilot. Um so
I don't hear much about anthropic to be
honest. So that might be more of like a
small business startupy
I don't know or or or it's a different
part of the organization that's using
it.
>> Yeah, that that's a whole discussion of
bundling right there of like Slack and
Teams and then just Yeah. Gemini just
kind of coming in automatically. People
don't have to adopt anything new.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> There's something else that you talk
about that I love that I don't think
people talk much about which is that
enterprise sales is very creative.
>> Oh yes. talk about that.
>> So I personally believe that
small business sales is really a I used
to think it was more science than art,
right? It was more like you know
figuring out what didn't work, running
experiments,
um uh you know testing and validating
which I do believe that's that's that's
that's to get to like foundations like
where do we play? What do we want to do?
like that early early early 0 to one
from 1 to 10 I think it's more of an art
right which is how do I take my learning
and how do I package it up where I own
the framing I can speak to very specific
alpha I can um vision cast and where I
better understand the problem over time
better than the market does
and it's all about deal crafting They
just need to feel like the value they're
getting out of it is way more than the
cost.
And it's sometimes about giving away
things that don't really cost much to
you, but are super expensive for them.
For example,
hey, we're selling X tool. We can we can
build out this. we can build out why
specifically for you over the next year
and integrate it because I know that you
would have spent x number of dollars on
engineering resources or you wouldn't
have gotten an engineering head
internally to do this. But we're just
going to leave it to you. You got to
give us a year to build it out. Again,
you're not you're not letting them
sidetrack you too much. You're kind of
containing it. We'll do that for you at
no additional cost. That's huge value,
right? or hey, we're going to run um
we're going to run an event and we want
you at the forefront of it. We want you
to be a speaker. Huge value, right? So,
it's like all of these additional things
that add value beyond just the product,
but are all part of the product and the
vision, right? You know, everyone keeps
thinking the product is just what goes
into their hand. The product is pricing.
the product is the um the opportunity,
the framing, and not letting them
compare you to something else. And I
know we talked on our first call, which
is as soon as you become a comparison,
as soon as you become one of three that
they're testing out, you've already sort
of lost.
It's all about differentiation,
right? And it's all about here's what
you will be able to do tomorrow because
of of of
how we're going to serve you today. So
along those lines, it reminds me in our
first chat, you actually made this uh
point that I've never heard anyone else
make, which is that services are a
really good way to start getting into
companies that were uh most founders
here like no, don't just like don't do
manual stuff for the company. Build a
product that you can scale. Your advice
is the opposite. Actually start with
sell services. Talk about that.
enterprises, the number one thing they
buy services. That's they know how to do
it. It's super easy. It's they they like
they do it all of the time. It's like
the most consistent thing they do. It's
their largest budget item, right?
External resources, consultants,
whatever.
If they have a very immature way of
understanding the problem or they've
never purchased technology to solve it
to some extent, right? either
one you are doing something that's never
been done before which is like you know
rare in today's day and age or um they
might just be like lagards on the
journey. So you have to decide is this
someone you really want to be working
with and if so selling them as service
even though the technology is powering
it on the back end is the fastest way to
get your foot in the door. It's they
it's what they know how to buy. Now the
idea is to once you sell that service,
once you get that foot in the door, then
it's to guide them towards the product.
Hey, you're spending so much here. Why
don't we move you? Why don't we get you
to come in and leverage the tool that's
been powering this the whole time and
move this more into technology ser
technology serving you versus the human.
>> Wow. I think this will blow a lot of
people's minds.
>> Talente, this forward deployed engineer.
That's exactly what they're doing,
right? like you know it's there's you
know there's a lot of companies out like
I'm sure open AI and this is what
someone told me they were in and talking
to CTOs and helping them better
understand how AI and their organization
can better work together and it was them
coaching them and educating them whether
they did it for free or not I I don't
know but they got their foot in the door
they started to build trust and then it
gets adopted
>> this is the epitome of doing things that
don't scale that advice we always hear
this is like okay this is what that
looks like we will solve this problem
for you we are using software to do it
and then over time, oh, you could just
do this yourself. You It'll cost you
less. You can scale this.
>> Yeah, that's right. Um, and they don't
even need to know at first that software
is doing it. That could be the magic
part, which is like, guys, we literally,
we are literally doing this with our
technology. Today's episode is brought
to you by KOD. I personally use KOD
every single day to manage my podcast
and also to manage my community. It's
where I put the questions that I plan to
ask every guest that's coming on the
podcast. It's where I put my community
resources. It's how I manage my
workflows. Here's how KOD can help you.
Imagine starting a project at work
[music] and your vision is clear. You
know exactly who's doing what and where
to find the data that you need to do
your part. In fact, you don't have to
waste time searching for anything
because everything your team needs from
project trackers and OKRs to documents
and spreadsheets lives in one tab all in
KOD. With Kota's collaborative
all-in-one workspace, you get the
flexibility of docs, the structure of
spreadsheets, the power of applications,
and the intelligence of AI, all in one
easy to organize tab. Like I mentioned
earlier, I use KOD every single day, and
more than 50,000 teams trust KOD to keep
them more aligned and focused. If you're
a startup team looking to increase
alignment and agility, KOD can help you
move from planning to execution in
record time. To try it for yourself, go
to kod.io/enny io/lenny today and get 6
months free of the team plan for
startups. That's cooda.io/lenny
to get started for free and get six
months of the team plan. kod.io/lenny.
There's a lot of talk these days about
this uh idea forward deployed engineers.
Something Palanteer was really famous
for just essentially an engineer sitting
in your office solving problems with you
like basically as an employee and then
through that they learn what software to
build. Is that something you're seeing
too? Oh yeah. I think you know I think
that that um a lot of companies a lot
sorry a lot of um folks that serve the
enterprise they they have a they have a
button a seat in their office like you
look at these large consultancies like
McKenzie they're not in their
headquarters they're in their client's
office all the time. And the other
interesting thing and and proof of this
is how many people go to a deote or an
Accenture and expect them to be a
channel partner. This is exactly what
this is all about, which is they sell
the service, they come in and then they
introduce, hey, look what look at the
what this startup is doing over here.
You might want to give them a shot. The
problem with channel partnerships and
why I don't believe in them is there are
a hundred of you on this list, right?
And you're expecting them to sell it on
your behalf. Biggest no. They're not
vision casters. They're not visionaries.
They're consultants.
But this is that goes all towards like
go find you know I remember startups
saying oh I'm going to go you know win
over Accenture and then have them
disseminate me into the their clients
and I'm like as if that's a workable
strategy. [laughter]
>> Okay. You know what might be helpful is
let me try to summarize some of the best
pieces of advice you've shared so far.
And this is specifically for folks
trying to go from about a million AR to
about 10 million AR. And then I want to
ask you just what's most different about
these two stages. But let me share this
first. So, uh, advice one is go for tier
one logos earlier than you think you
should because they're early adopters.
They, uh, can move fast. They can pull
you in the right direction
>> and they excite investors, too.
>> Yeah. Uh, for sure. And other and other
leads.
>> Yeah. And other and other, you know,
talent, future employees. Yeah. Exactly.
So the counterintuitive insight here is
you think they will move slow and be too
busy but in they are actually the early
adopters.
>> That's right. Yeah. They have to
maintain that number one spot. Um and
also all of the people that are in the
number two, number three, number four
spot all want to do what number one is
doing.
>> So it's also like pure referenceability
too. And the point about them being the
early adopters, like the people that
join the stripes and open ais and
anthropics are like the like they
individually love technology and love
the latest stuff. So like as a human
they're like oh this is cool.
>> That's exactly right. I'm being with
myself, aren't I? That's kind of funny.
But yeah,
>> that's a good sign.
>> So two is uh ideally try to price closer
to about 100K like 75 to 100ish
K is what you said most enterprises are
used to buying. Yeah. So, instead of
starting or even sticking with 10K, 20K
for too long, you need to make yourself
go towards 75 to 150K.
>> That's right. Yep. And if you were to
sell a service, because I know we're
talking about selling services first,
prorate that over time. So, maybe it's
10K a month. So, they start to get used
to what that pricing looks like.
>> So, this is a way to make it feel this
is like how you get to 75 to 150K is
there's a service attached to it. It's
not just here's my SAS product. It's we
will solve this problem for you or
person will be sitting there doing this
for you.
>> Yeah. Or it's a no it's a technology
too. I mean you can add the services I
always well let me take that back. The
service whether the services is bundled
into it or not that some people will
unbundle it. Other people will say the
services is a part of it but yeah it
nets out to 75 to 150k. That's right.
>> Okay. And you said that it's okay to
start lower on ACVs and deals but you
need to push fast towards 100k like over
a few months.
>> Yep. That's right. Like if you can get
into if you can get into an enterprise
for 10k in a month, which is not doable,
but if you could and you could go from
10k to 50k in four months through an
expansion strategy, all game that makes
sense, but it's really rare and very
hard to do.
>> And so the so there's two different
paths there. One is land cheap and grow
quickly. The other is move your ACV uh
average up quickly.
>> That's right.
>> Seems like both or that's the latter is
probably the more common strategy is
just keep increasing price. is the
former you can get tripped up because
they could say, "Okay, now give me an
economical price for doing this for 100
people and then it all kind of evens out
because now you're at the 100k deal
anyway, you know, but it's hard. It's
much there's more room for error, which
is why I say go in and try to land
100k."
>> By the way, in our first chat, we talked
uh a lot about the procurement process,
which is what trips a lot of people up
and is really painful. And I remember I
I vividly remember that conversation
still. Uh, so if people are having
issues getting through the sales process
and procurement, a lot of good advice
there.
>> And getting stuck in procurement is
usually because you're not speaking to a
senior enough person and they don't know
how to navigate it, which is why like
that executive needs to be involved
because as soon as the executive picks
up a phone and tries to get a hold of
like their buying group,
things move, right? Like when people
say, "Oh, I'm stuck in procurement." I'm
like, "Oh, that's a that could just be a
qualification error." and you never get
out of it because you sold to someone
too junior. Um so that's why the 100k is
such a safe zone because even for 10k
you might have to go through
procurement.
So um this is like the shest way to make
sure that like you don't um
listen I've seen 10k take nine months to
close.
>> No bueno.
>> Yeah. So
>> okay uh next piece of advice is this
idea of vision casting instead of
problem solving. So the advice here is
instead of here's your problem, here's
how our product solves it is here's how
you will achieve alpha in the market by
adopting the software. We talked about
the example of cursor where if you adopt
cursor, you're going to draw the 10x
engineers that are joining other
companies right now. This will give you
a big advantage.
>> That's right. And yeah, it's pain verse
opportunity.
>> Um especially in the age of AI and I
know that that's we're we're moving into
the next dimension. It's all about
solving for a gap.
seldom about you know solving for a very
very specific problem because people are
trying to figure out what's our AI
strategy where are we going to go with
this what is the world going to look
like I want to be a part of that new
world so it's a great time to be doing
that
>> and then there's a bunch of advice we
shared you talked you shared uh about
design partners of just how to select
them uh your advice is definitely have
design partners because they will help
you build the right thing but as a
founder it's you need to have a clear
vision and sense of where you want to go
and not just build everything they're
asking you to build.
>> That's right. Because it's important to
say no, right? Like um and that and
that's all part of the framing, right?
Which is like here's here's we want a
little skin in the game. Like you set
the price, but here's where we're here's
what we're marching towards in the next
6 to 12 months. Like
are we aligned there? If we pro if we
deliver on what we say we're going to
deliver, are we aligned there? And and
do that kind of handshake. Is there
anything else that I missed that you
think is really important for this
stage?
>> So 1 to 10 is no longer the founder.
Maybe the founder comes in in very
strategic points, but you need a really
good enterprise salespeople, right?
Taking someone from small business and
expecting them to do enterprise sales
big. No, no. It's a different game,
right? Vically different game. You need
to understand how corporations buy. You
need to understand how executives think.
you need to better understand simply
just like what the enterprise business
model is all about and like their
ability to take on risk. people will
bring in like super junior enterprise
sales reps and I'm like you're looking
to sell to an executive and you have
this 10 like this person that's 5 years
out of school with no corporate
experience
doing it again where unless they have
like some extremely
you know deep experience in the industry
or are just like a unicorn in terms of
like wow this person can sell ice to an
Eskimo kind of thing. a junior person
converting an executive. Again, if the
founder's involved, maybe that's doable.
Um, but usually the founder can't be
involved in every deal. And you need you
need people that can I always say you
need people that can cosplay
a founder,
right? which is like selling the vision,
getting them excited, like running
through a wall to get the deal done and
getting creative on how none of my deals
look exactly the same. Every deal looks
different
and that's okay because um every
organization has slightly different
opportunities of where they want to go
and you have to kind of build towards
that and the framing may change. So,
it's this ability to like adapt from
what you're hearing and like let that
compound over time, but like I always
say like, can this person cosplay the
founder?
I think that that's the the best type of
salesperson because it doesn't feel like
sales. It's more of the art.
>> This is amazing advice. What is a a
common profile that you've seen be
successful? Like what level of
seniority, what kind of personality, any
traits to look for?
>> Maybe a former founder if you can get
that. um cuz they're used to selling,
right? They've sold investors and
they've sold employees. Two is someone
with no sales experience but has deep
product experience or an engineer and
can like think about things in a unique
way where you can where the market's
like, "Oh, this is so interesting."
Taking a t typical salesperson then and
putting them into a sales role almost
always is where people get frustrated.
the market, it feels salesy, like the
market doesn't want to be sold to, they
want to buy. And I know that this is
like this, it's very hard to hire a
really good enterprise salesperson,
right? Um I mean, the number of people
that I've interviewed, I can count on my
hand the ones that I'm like I get really
really excited by. It's a it's a it's a
it's almost like, you know, coming
across a great founder, right? It's it's
like, you know, it's not as it's not as
common as everyone expects. Um, and I
think that that's true for engineering.
I think that that's true for sales. And
I think a lot of people
sales is like, oh, just throw a body
into it. The product will do the work.
>> Advice I often here is don't hire kind
of a senior VP of salesperson from a
bigger company.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you agree with that? How what's like
too senior?
>> Yeah. So, um, the bigger company thing,
the the brand was doing all of the work.
>> The brand built the trust. you need this
person to be able to build the trust and
like they're usually the product is
still so new. The product is the founder
in the 0ero to one stage. The product is
just starting to get like a a case
study. You probably have maybe a few
references, but it's still very very
early days. You need the market to
believe the salesperson and you need
that market to know that they're
trustworthy. a VP of sales at a large
company, I would say uh they're be
they're best suited for a large company
because one to 10, you're running
through walls, right? You have to figure
out, you know, you're doing a lot of
convincing. You're doing a lot of
educating. You're doing a lot of
creative deal crafting, a lot of owning
the frame. It's not necessarily selling
a product. It's selling that future
value. Um, which a VP of sales at a
large company is that's a very different
um it's a different game. It's kind of
like the SMB in enterprise. It's
interesting you said when you described
the profile of a of a great hireer here
is you said they don't need to have done
sales if they have done sales what's
like a number of years or kind of like
what what do you look for that tells you
okay this is a good fit for the first
hire
>> I actually think it's less about
experience and more about the person
like does this person make you feel good
do you want to buy from this person I
think Jason Jason Lumpkin said that best
like would you want to buy from this
person
>> can they sell you a pen the classic
>> can exactly um you know do they do they
do they mimic or mirror the market
they're selling to, right? It's much
easier to buy from someone that looks
and feels like you than it does from
somebody that's like, you know,
in a totally different realm. Um, and
also like an executive wants to talk to
another senior person, right? They don't
want to talk to someone that just
graduated from college and is is selling
them the new way of working. Like what
do they know? So, I think it's it's
tricky. I would say like, you know, um
someone with no sales experience makes
it feel different and special. That's
what I like about it. Someone with sales
experience knows how to navigate and
probably qualify better. But it's almost
like the blend of those two things.
And that's why I go back to like
cosplaying the founder, which is like
could this person, you know, could this
person like close a future employee,
right? like do they get excited about
the problems they're solving internally
and the vision that they get to sell to?
>> This actually was a a a reader question,
a listener question from Twitter. Uh so
Peter Den asked, "How do you how do you
make this first salesperson as
enthusiastic about the product as you?
Is there something you can do? Is it
more just they already are and you just
leverage that?"
>> Incentives.
Sales people love to make money.
So if they if they know it's possible,
if they know it's possible, you'll be
shocked what people can get done.
>> If they see how much they could make,
>> amazing, right?
>> Uh I imagine there still also has to be
an innate excitement about the product
and
>> they have to believe in it. They have to
believe in the founder, but like
incentives usually make the world go
round. Um but yeah, is this person are
they asking the right questions to the
founder? are they um you know I always
the best thing to do is have the founder
join the first
five calls you know after five calls
that this person has what it takes and
don't be afraid to fire like one in
every two salespeople usually are fired
it's it's a very yeah it's like it's
it's a very high failure rate
>> because you can tell pretty quickly how
it's coming
>> you can you can tell or the the vision
of the founders is just very wrong.
>> Speaking of incentives, do you have any
quick advice on how to structure their
comp? Just like how much they earn?
>> Um, it's usually 50/50. So, it's 50% OT,
50%. So, it's a 50% base salary, 50% um
OT,
>> and then how much of the sale do they
typically get? Say the first sale is
higher.
>> It depends on the price, the size of the
deal. But in technology, uh, it could be
anywhere between like 8 and 12%. So,
rounds out around 10%. Okay, awesome.
>> Uh, when do you hire the first
salesperson? Is around the 1 million AR
mark usually?
>> Yeah, it's around that 1 million AR
mark. And I and it's it's usually when
you have your first seven to 10
customers and there's some there's some
pattern recognition around it that you
can that you can share with somebody
else. Um, it's there's some
consistencies otherwise it's just like
that would be very hard. Basically, as a
founder, you have to figure out how to
sell enough times
>> so that you can show someone, here's
what's working.
>> And this is the common thing I hear.
Well, I I'm a $10 million business. I'm
like, in this small business space,
you're zero in enterprise.
>> It's a zero to one right now in
enterprise. It's a totally different
game. It's a different value
proposition. It's a different deal
structuring. It's a different target
market. It's a different risk tolerance.
It's a it's totally different. So don't
don't be blindsided
when
uh it doesn't work.
>> There's a lot of un unlearning that
needs to happen when you move into a new
market.
>> So the advice here is make yourself sell
up until around a a millionaire R uh
especially uh if you're trying to go
enterprise selling to enterprises
yourself as a founder which is really
hard. You have so much to do and you
have to be selling this thing for a long
time.
>> Yep. And then, you know, try and find
try and find someone that like you get
excited by. Like, it's funny if you ask
the founder, are you excited by your
salesperson? I'm curious what the real
answer is. It's like, well, it's a
button, a seed, and it was hard to hire.
So,
>> interesting.
>> I remember I think it was Jason's advice
was to hire two people immediately.
That's right.
>> So, you can compare them. Do you agree
with that?
>> Yeah. Because of the 50 50% failure
rate. I think that's exactly right. Um,
so yeah, even even a taller order go
order, go find two people that are good.
Um, but yeah, I think that that's right
because you know, one and two will fail.
>> Okay, let me ask you another reader
question from uh Hang Hang. This is kind
of in a different direction. Uh, so he
says, "The biggest challenge is always
cutting through the noise to get that
initial meeting with the right decision
maker. How do you even get their
attention?"
>> It's the vision. What What is the
opportunity that you're selling?
that if if they are excited by that they
will take a call. I see it all the time.
And don't give away the farm. Like keep
it to three sentences,
right? Like and this is I I know I said
this on our first call, but like say
something counterintuitive. Make it feel
different. Make it feel like they can
learn from you by taking a 15-minute
call, right? um you know you you see the
standards of like oh I came across your
LinkedIn and you know are you looking to
grow your business by 15%. It's like
that what kind of statement is that?
>> So and this is in the in the cold email
they get this pitch. Awesome.
>> Uh so this is a this is a good segue to
another reader question from Hugo Alves
co-founder of synthetic users.
>> He asked what's the best advice for
going from healthy inbound to targeted
outbound? Healthy inbound usually is a
marketingled initiative.
So that's a marketing game.
It depends like what deal value you're
selling. Are you selling a $5,000 deal?
It's got to be marketing le to make that
to make the engine work. If you're
selling a $100,000 deal, you're doing
outbound day one. So again, it breaks it
into those. This is like that blending
of the I see a blending of that
question. This is where are you doing
small business, you know, marketingled
activities or are you a salesled
organization selling a $100,000 deal?
>> And the reason this important, just in
case it's not obvious, is you're not
going to make money if you're selling
people are spending time closing deals
that are making 10 20K. Just the ROI on
that won't work for your business model.
>> That's right. Yep.
>> Awesome. Uh, by the way, let me just
say, Jen, this is this is like an
incredible conversation already. We've
kind through so much. This is like
exactly what I was hoping to get
through. We've done gone through so much
advice that I think is going to be so
helpful to so many people.
There's uh there's a few things that
your partner Justin also suggested I ask
you about that I want to touch on. One
is you have this question you ask
founders a lot that uh opens up their
mind. You ask them if you give your
product away for free, would people even
use this? And every founder is like of
course. And then you ask a customer this
and they're like no we wouldn't use
this. and that just blows their mind.
Talk about just the power of that and
how you recommend people approach this.
>> I always say, "Ask the questions you're
afraid to cuz that truth is going to get
you closer and closer to the answer."
So, I'll ask a client straight up on a
call. I'll say, "Honestly, do we think
we're going to get this the deal done
this year?" Like, is it possible?
They'll give you the real answer. like
and people are afraid to ask, but like
the other side is sort of, you know, if
they're in it with you, they don't care
about that question,
right? Can't ask that question on day
one. But like if you are, and we didn't
talk about this, but maybe this is
important.
Every single enterprise deal I have
done,
the deal is done, the deal is closed and
pretty much done through text. It's not
on email anymore. It is a relationship
you're building with someone where if my
if my enterprise client called me, I'm
picking up that phone immediately or I'm
responding them to immediately because
that builds so much trust. If they know
they can call on you, they're going to
get you to pick up and they know that
you're going to do everything humanly
possible to make sure that this is
successful.
People will people will, you know, turn
over rocks for you. Like I have a a
client at a Fortune 10 company where I
was like it's so important we get the
deal done this year. Like is that
possible? And she's like it's a tall
order but like if it's going to help you
let's do it. Like these are how
enterprise deals gets done. It's
relationships and it's it's this like
and this is why I'm saying like
structuring the deal. Make it feel like
you went to bat for them and in often
often cases you are going to bat for
them and structure it in a way that
makes sense for them. You everyone kind
of just tries and pigeon hole. Pigeon
holeing and deal structuring consistency
is important for a $10,000 sub $10,000
deal.
A $100,000 deal it could it it very
commonly will look different every time.
April Dunford was on the podcast and she
shared this really interesting insight
that the the reason people behave this
way is the person at the company buying
this thing, their ass is on the line
also like their reputation is on the
line for this thing to work out. So they
want it to go really well.
>> That's right. They again it's that one
they do this one in every three years,
one in every two years, maybe one in
every five years. Hell, I don't know. It
is not at all. They don't do this every
year. It's very rare. It's No one likes
a new tool.
No one. Not you, not me. Unless it
unless it changes everything.
>> Yeah, Figma. Figma is a great example of
that. Slack,
>> everything you've touched, [laughter]
>> everything that worked out.
>> You said that you ask these questions
that people are afraid to ask. What are
some other examples of questions you
often ask that people are afraid to ask?
I will say, listen, this this is a
$150,000 engagement.
I will co-author it with you where we
can make this a little bit bigger if you
need something else. We can make it a
little bit smaller in year one, but in
year two it steps up. Like how do we get
this done so when you go to bat it's a
win? They seldom seldom do they like
take it to the wrong side and like try
and discount you. I've actually never
seen that because at that point you have
a relationship. So, I co-authoring the
pricing is so important because they
need to know that they go to bad, they
can say, I I got this out of them if we
get this deal done, right? So, um this
is why like when I say every deal looks
the same, you're asking great questions
because it's explaining kind of why I
meant by that. But like this is another
example of like why every deal in the
enterprise sort of looks somewhat
different because a lot of it is
co-authored. So again, if someone wants
a slightly lower price, give it to them,
but maybe then lock them in a little bit
longer.
>> There's another point that Justin makes
that uh you've touched on a bit, but
it's when you hear no. The way he
phrased it is Jen always talks about how
no is the best answer to yes because no
is data that you can use. Talk about
that.
>> I am a qualification crazy person. I
will not get on another call with
someone because on the first call, it's
either a yes or a no. There's no in
between.
Like it is people humans are
like we're so different and we're so
unpredictable but we're also so
predictable at the same time right like
it's very obvious if someone is excited
and wants to do something. It is so
obvious when someone is just trying to
be nice.
So I will I will say to them on that
call like I'm sort of getting the vibe
that this might not be a good fit or
might not be good timing. Like did I
misinterpret that? And they will usually
say yeah you're right. It's probably not
a good and then immediate. Great. I
would love to stay in touch. You've just
saved a relationship and you've just
saved yourself a ton of time.
>> And the implication here is just to your
point there, you're you're limited on
time. You you don't want to be spending
time going down a rival that won't get
you anywhere.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> I'm going to take a quick tangent on
tools. What's kind of like the
state-of-the-art on go to market
outbound tooling?
>> I don't use a tool
>> because I believe in the manual. Okay.
And I'll explain why. every single note
I send is slightly different because
like I see a picture of them and I'm
like oh I don't know if that's going to
land
>> or I'm like they actually might
appreciate this. It's weird like visual
cues are so helpful. A picture is a
visual cue you know looking at how long
they've they've been in the role looking
how long they've been at the company.
Um, I use all of these little things and
I don't I seldom customize a a a note in
a way that like people expect which is
like that first like customized sentence
because AI does that and everyone's
doing that. So I go the opposition which
is like remove it and I customize it
with how I frame it um or the subject
line. Uh
yeah. So, it's like um like if I'm
talking to someone like like up here, I
might be I might say like quick question
like QQ. If I'm talking to someone that,
you know, um has a bit more experience,
I might write a little bit of a tighter
note, not all lowercase. So, like it
just depends on who you're speaking to.
And and again, this is why it's okay to
spend a little bit of time on this
because it's a it's a $100,000. It's
actually a million dollars at the end of
the day because a $100,000 deal, if you
play your cards right, turns into a
million dollar deal over three to five
years.
>> I love how much you enjoy this. This is
so fun to [laughter]
So, essentially, what are you doing?
You're sitting on LinkedIn finding folks
to ping and then you cold email them one
individually manually.
>> It's so weird, Lenny. Like, I have no
process. I kind of just go with like
the vibe. Like I'll read an article
about
Tesla and I'm like, "Huh, they could be
interested in this." Not because that
article had anything to do with the
problem I'm solving, but because I'm
like, "This feels like a good Tesla
day." Like, it's like it's it's hard to
describe. Like, it's a very emotional
thing for me. And, you know, not to not
to toot my own horn obviously, but like
I've been successful in sales. And the
most successful salespeople can't
explain why they're good at it. It just
comes to them naturally. It's just like
an emotional
thing. It's like the world's best
founders. How how do you be a good
founder?
It's really very very hard to define.
How will you become a good engineer?
Very very hard to define. So like
I don't believe in I don't believe in
like playbooks. I don't like I believe
that like there's like a feel to it.
Like I emailed like the a chief legal
officer at a hedge fund once and he
responded to me because I wrote to him
on Saturday. I knew he was going to be
busy. I I made it one sentence and it
was like tweaked for him.
>> Do you feel like this is going to be the
the way as AI SDRs just kind of take
over and everyone's getting billions of
emails that feel AIish?
>> Yes.
So I guess maybe speak more there just
like uh the is the alpha essentially
just become human don't automate.
>> Yeah.
>> The the thing about AI tools is they're
all pulling from the same databases. So
I'm like I want to email someone not in
a database that's getting hit by a
million folks. I want to take a back
door in not the front door where
everyone else is trick-or-treating you
know. And this is effective for a very
large deal which is what you need to be
doing anyway because it's taking takes a
lot of time to do this to do it this
way.
>> Yeah.
>> Interesting. So you're not like sitting
in clay, you're not like Apollo, I don't
know all all those tools. You're just
like finding people yourself.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you start with a target prospect list
at least just like here's the companies
that are the perfect fit for this and
let's work through them?
>> It's all in my brain because I've been
doing this for so long. I I like I have
in my brain I'm like these are my early
adopters. these who I'm going to go to
after I close those logos cuz they get
excited by those logos. So, it's just
like experience of like, you know, you
land um I don't know, you you land a a
Walmart, you're going to go to, you
know, the rest of the industry and say,
"Hey, we're working with Walmart." You
know, um versus like you go to, you
know, some, you know, lowerend
enterprise company and they're like,
"Wait, what do you do? What?" Like I I
can't even comprehend like they're the
also the most strategic people, some of
the most strategic executives are at
these tier one logos. That's why they're
tier one because they've got like super
smart like really capable folks. They
also attract the best talent. The best
talent likes to experiment and continue
to improve. So it's like it's this con
it's like this compounding thing
>> for someone that isn't Jen and has all
this experience. They like their
founder, they hit a million AR. They're
just like okay where do we find our
customers? Do you have any advice for
coming up with a just kind of coming up
with who we should go after?
>> Should they be using these tools? Should
they be hiring someone like a Jen? Like
I know this is what you do for
companies. So, you know, one crowd is go
hire Jellyfish to help them through
this. But
>> the founder the founder I would say the
the founder
this is sort of in tune with them in a
way. They just have to like find it.
They like it's all it's so weird to say
this. It's all vi and I hate saying it
because it's like it's like a
commonplace thing to say, but it's like
there's this thing about like flow and
it's like some of these brands are in
flow with you right now, right? Like
um
you you you you found this insight from
somewhere.
Who else? what's the ne next adjacent
ring of people that like would buy into
that?
>> And so what I'm hearing is just like pay
attention to what's happening, what
companies are
>> in the news, what companies are doing
interesting things, what who are the
kind of the early adopters in the
market.
>> If it was just a database list and it
was just about figuring out the right
messaging and then you know emailing
folks, we would have known by that by
now.
>> That's so interesting. Okay, maybe one
more question. This again is from
Justin. He shares that when you hit
resistance, you never argue. You
reframe. If someone says, "We already
have X solution. You'll agree and pivot
and totally X is great for this thing,
but here's what we can do." This is why
it's sell to the alpha. Hey, I know I
listen that problem you just described.
You're right. You have a tool for that.
We're taking you much further upstream
with value.
This is the opportunity I want you guys
to have access to.
>> I love it. Jen, I've gone through
everything I was hoping to get through.
Uh, on the other hand, I feel like we
could do another hour on all these
things. I feel like we need
>> three in uh,
>> yeah, we need round three on the next
phase and all the things that people
want to dig further into before we get
to our very exciting lightning round. Is
there anything else that you wanted to
touch on or share?
>> This stuff is really hard. Um,
it's very hard. Like sales is also all
about like learning very very quickly
from the rejection. The rejection is
good because it's a forced learning and
you never want to go through that again.
Um, but you have to be I don't like to
use the word cringe. Like you you can't
be afraid to
cringy is like you know bringing your AI
recorder into a call. Like that's
cringey. But like
sending sending 15 notes to people that
you can deliver serious value to. Like
don't be afraid. And don't be afraid to
like ask the hard questions.
Be different. This is the the whole game
is about, oh, this feels different.
That's what people want access to. And
yet, everyone commoditizes themselves.
Like they try and mimic what everyone,
you know, they try and mimic, you know,
a forward deployed engineer. Just rename
it. You don't have to use the same
nomomenclature, you know, like
>> everyone gets excited by the new because
the new could be the next thing, the
thing that changes it all. Um, so that's
why I'm always like, don't be better, be
different.
>> An amazing way to end it. Uh, with that,
Jen, we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready?
>> Yeah.
>> First question, what are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> I do Twitter accounts.
>> Oh, Twitter accounts to follow. Oh,
amazing. Okay.
>> I like Lenny, the day I have time to
read a book.
>> Period.
>> Period. I would love I would love to be
reading books. [laughter]
>> Cool. Twitter accounts to follow. Tell
me.
>> Yeah.
>> Obviously you like you produce some of
the best content truthfully
>> with like you get into the minds of
people that like they're not even giving
this insight on Twitter. Um
uh who else do I absolutely love? Um
Jason Lumpkin. So for sales, Jason
Lumpkin is awesome. awesome follow for
sales and also he had a great great um
recording with you. So link to that
because that was a great piece. I
actually learned a ton from it. I love
Gavin Baker.
Super nuanced takes like takes a lot of
like obvious statements but like shares
a lot of the non-obvious uh insight.
He's great. Uh Jason Cohen, have you
ever had Jason Cohen on the cast?
>> Jason Cohen, a smart bear. Jason Cohen.
>> Yeah. Yeah. He's coming on the podcast
in at the end of the year. Some
>> Oh, that's awesome. What a great plug
for him right there. Um,
>> yeah, those three would be great. I know
they're all men, but
>> great tips.
>> Yeah.
>> Next question. Is there a favorite
recent movie or TV show that you've
really enjoyed? I know you said you have
time to read.
>> This is going to be embarrassing.
Baywatch.
>> Baywatch.
>> Yeah.
>> Watch Baywatch channel. It's just so
numb and it's like 90s classic.
Baywatch.
>> Wow. I've never heard that one before.
So, this is original Baywatch with
>> this is original Hasselhoff. David
Hasselhoff
Pamela Anderson. The original cast.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Deep cut. Is there a product
you've recently discovered that you
really love?
>> So, the number one thing for me right
now is an app called Playground, which
is the pictures of my toddler that they
upload into the preschool. Uh, so I can
get like the daily updates on like
what's going on in preschool um when
he's at home.
>> Amazing. I need that. Uh, I get like
emails and and Google photos. That would
really
>> There's Yeah, there was another one
called CL uh like Class Dojo. There's a
few of them, but Playground's the one
that this preschool's on.
>> Love Class dojo. I'm a small investor.
>> Are you really?
>> I am.
>> Oh, that's awesome.
>> How about that? Uh, two more questions.
Do you have a favorite life motto that
you find yourself coming back to, find
useful in work or in life?
>> Yeah, be direct. like cut the fluff like
give me the one sent give me the bullet
not the paragraph.
>> Final question. I was told that by
Justin that you've never read a sales
book. You've just learned to do this. Uh
if you were to read a sales book, if
there was someone else out there that
you look up to learn from, is there
anyone else out there in the world of
sales that you most respect? Most
>> I think Jason Lumpin has the strongest
understanding of sales. His content is
unbelievable. He speaks about it clearly
and cleanly. I would say he like and as
I mentioned like unbelievable Twitter
follow. I'm a big fan of his. I've
actually learned a lot from him too.
Like the 5050 thing or higher two sales
people. He's spot on.
>> Failure rate's actually probably higher
than 50%.
>> I love that guy and he's so he's so like
AI forward these days. He's just
building. He almost took down Replet
with his uh complaints. It was a whole
new cycle of how
>> did you correct? Like sometimes he says
things that are like harsh, but you're
like he's not wrong.
>> Love it. I got to get him back on the
podcast.
>> Yeah,
>> Jen, this was incredible. This was
everything I wanted to be. I feel like
we just leveled up all the founders that
have listened to this in their ability
to close. We're going to just create all
the economic value and uh a lot of happy
VCs from all the sales that will be
closed as a result of the advice you
shared. Two final questions. Where can
folks find you if they want to either
work with you or or follow you online?
And how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Twitter. Um I every new learning or
mishap I put right on Twitter. So it's
like my personal diary and super
responsive on Twitter DM.
>> What's your Twitter handle? Twitter
handle.
>> It's double double J. So JJ Jen_ab
Lel.
>> You did not make that easy for people to
find you, but we will
>> I know. I know I didn't.
>> And the J's the from Jellyfish. Is that
where the extra J?
>> Yeah, the double J's. And then also
Well, someone else had the handle. So I
was like, I I need my name.
>> You got By the way, just tell people
what Jellyfish is in case that might be
helpful to them.
>> Yeah. So it's a um consultancy that
helps folks in the zero to one stage.
And now I'm at uh general manager of
enterprise at state affairs which is
basically giving individ giving citizens
and corporations an inside peak into
like what's actually going on inside the
state capital building. State policy is
way more impact than on you than federal
policy. Federal policy is written more
about.
>> Incredible. Uh I've only recently
learned that that's what you're doing
these days and that is super impactful
and important. So thank you for your
work there.
>> Stephen democracy.
>> No big deal. Jen, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thank you so much, Lenny. This was a
blast.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
[music]
See you in the next episode.